# **OmniPES** Power Systems Analysis Library

The OmniPES library is the main outcome of a learning experience in which we investigated how we could effectively use the Modelica language for modeling and analyzing electrical power systems. As the library matured, it was structured along the same lines as industrial-grade power-flow and transient stability programs employ for modeling bulk power systems.

At the present stage of the development, the OmniPES library provides mainly two analysis frameworks: steady-state and transient stability. In the first framework, power-flow restrictions are enforced at all times during a simulation. The second one, on the other hand, considers the premises of transient stability programs, which allow the inclusion of slow dynamics associated with generation, load, and other system controlling devices. 

Furthermore, within the OmniPES library, initial operating conditions are established through embedded power-flow restrictions applied to power plants and loads. This modeling feature facilitates the rapid prototyping of small to medium-scale power systems, eliminating the necessity of importing power flow results from third-party programs.

The `Circuit` subpackage contains the most basic network elements for positive-sequence power system analysis, such as electrical buses, shunt and series components used to construct more complex models such as voltage and current sources, transmission lines, two-winding transformers, breakers, and faults.

In the `SteadyState` subpackage, one can find models that, together with the \modelica{Circuit} subpackage, allow one to perform traditional power flow analysis based on positive-sequence equipment models. In this package, the focus remain on loads and sources, typically specified by means of active and reactive power and voltage magnitudes. Models for various types of power sources are available such as $\rm V\theta$, PV, PQ, and PQ with reactive power limits, in addition to non-linear polynomial load, the well-known ZIP loads. In order to avoid any misinterpretation, the models available in the `SteadyState` subpackage allow power flow computations at every time instant.  In this context, the `time` can be seen as a parameterization of model variations, which can account for daily load profiles, generation ramps, wind speed profiles, etc.

The `Transient` subpackage provides models for electromechanical stability studies, such as stability models for synchronous machines and their associated controllers, such as voltage and speed regulators, in addition to power system stabilizers and polynomial loads. One important aspect that cannot be disregarded when dealing with electromechanical stability simulations is the establishment of proper steady-state operating conditions. In the OmniPES library, the choice was to embed the power flow restrictions alongside the initial conditions equations, which distinguishes the present development from other power system libraries. In this manner, the user is not required to import initial operating conditions calculated by third-party programs. 

Moreover, by appropriately combining models from `SteadyState` and `Transient` subpackages, the OmniPES library also makes it possible to prepare quasi-steady-state simulations to help analyze system behavior in the long-term time range \cite{VanCutsem1994}. Such simulation kind usually neglect faster dynamics (e.g., generator damper windings and inner current control loops in power electronic devices) and retain slower dynamics, such as those related to secondary voltage and/or frequency regulation, boiler control, under-load tap changers, minimum and maximum excitation limiters, load dynamics, among others.

Up to this moment, the OmniPES library has been fully developed with the OpenModelica modeling and simulation environment [OpenModelica](https://openmodelica.org/). The latest simulations were all performed using the version `1.22.2~12-g3b7ae01`. The modelling implementation is based on the recent [MSL 4.0.0](https://github.com/modelica/ModelicaStandardLibrary/releases/tag/v4.0.0).
